CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

If you want to add to harvest, please familiarise yourself with the code & our [Coding Standards][]. Before you submit a PR, please [file an issue][new collab] to request collaborator access.

If you would like to contribute reports, either add them via PR to [Arboretum][] or push to your own repository & let us know of its existence.

Follow the guidelines outlined in the [generating reports][] section of the harvest docs when contributing reports to [Arboretum][].

## Code formatting and style

Please ensure all code contributions are formatted by `yapf` and pass all `flake8` linter requirements.
CI/CD will run `yapf` and `flake8` on all new commits and reject changes if there are failures.  If you
run `make develop` to setup and maintain your virtual environment then `yapf` and `flake8` will be executed
automatically as part of all git commits.  If you'd like to run things manually you can do so locally by using:

```shell
make code-format
make code-lint
```

## Testing

Please ensure all code contributions are covered by appropriate unit tests and that all tests run cleanly.
CI/CD will run tests on all new commits and reject changes if there are failures. You should run the test
suite locally by using:

```shell
make test
```

[Arboretum]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-arboretum
[Coding Standards]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-framework/blob/master/doc/coding-standards.rst
[generating reports]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-harvest#generate-reports
[new collab]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-harvest/issues/new?template=new-collaborator.md

Commit message:

Add guidelines around changelogs and releases (#19)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

If you want to add to harvest, please familiarise yourself with the code & our [Coding Standards][]. Before you submit a PR, please [file an issue][new collab] to request collaborator access.

If you would like to contribute reports, either add them via PR to [Arboretum][] or push to your own repository & let us know of its existence.

Follow the guidelines outlined in the [generating reports][] section of the harvest docs when contributing reports to [Arboretum][].

## Code formatting and style

Please ensure all code contributions are formatted by `yapf` and pass all `flake8` linter requirements.
CI/CD will run `yapf` and `flake8` on all new commits and reject changes if there are failures.  If you
run `make develop` to setup and maintain your virtual environment then `yapf` and `flake8` will be executed
automatically as part of all git commits.  If you'd like to run things manually you can do so locally by using:

```shell
make code-format
make code-lint
```

## Testing

Please ensure all code contributions are covered by appropriate unit tests and that all tests run cleanly.
CI/CD will run tests on all new commits and reject changes if there are failures. You should run the test
suite locally by using:

```shell
make test
```

## Releases and change logs

We follow [semantic versioning][semver] and [changelog standards][changelog] with
the following addendum:

- We set the main package `__init__.py` `version` for version tracking.
- Our change log is CHANGES.md.
- In addition to the _types of changes_ outlined in the
[changelog standards][changelog] we also include a BREAKING _type of change_ to
call out any change that may cause downstream execution disruption.
- Change types are always capitalized and enclosed in square brackets.  For
example `[ADDED]`, `[CHANGED]`, etc.
- Changes are in the form of complete sentences with appropriate punctuation.

[semver]: https://semver.org/
[changelog]: https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#how
[Arboretum]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-arboretum
[Coding Standards]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-framework/blob/master/doc/coding-standards.rst
[generating reports]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-harvest#generate-reports
[new collab]: https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-harvest/issues/new?template=new-collaborator.md
